This directory contains a complete and selfcontained example
of a working configuration.

Configuration:
--------------    
ROM, RAM, Video Ram, MMIX CPU, Virtual Motherboard
The configuration is described in detail in the file default.mmc,
the configuration file read by all components (except 
the MMIX CPU and the java frame buffer device).

For the frame buffer device two implementations are available
that can be used interchangably. Edit default.mmc to
have the motherboard start one or the other.

Execution:
----------
Start the example by changing into the example directory
and start the program "mother" by a double click.
The mother program runns with debugging switched on and produces
lengthy accounts of what is going on on the bus.
If you dont like this, you can switch debugging off by closing the debug window.

mother will read deault.mmc and will start
rom, ram. winvram (or framebuffer.jar) and mmix.
These programms will in turn read again default.mmc
and connect to the motherboard.
The rom program will in addition load the file bios.img
containing the rom image for the boot rom.

Before the components become operational you should switch on
the virtual power source by clicking the power button on the
virtual PC.

The only active component is the MMIX CPU.
It will load the MMIX object file lorentz.mmo into RAM
and start it. The MMIX CPU boots by executing instructions from
virtual address 0x8000000000000000 which is mapped
to pysical address 0, thats just where the rom is mapped
on the bus. 
It will initialize the machinery and then jump 
to the user program at virtual address #100
(in the text segement mapped to physical address 0x0000000100002100)
there it simulate a lorentz attractor, and generates
output using a special System call GPutPixel implemented in bios.

You can interrupt the running MMIX CPU by typing Ctrl-C and
single step through the program by hitting the "enter" key.
You terminate the program by switching off power on the
virtual PC Power button.

You can modify the source programs
   lorentz.mms and bios.mms
to produce object files use the mmix assembler mmixal
 run: mmixal bios.mms 
 and: mmixal lorentz,mms  
this will produce lorentz.mmo and bios.mmo
To produce the boot image bios.img
you have to run mmoboot on bios.mmo 
 rum: mmoboot bios.mmo
producing bios.img

If you have make (you should) you can remake all files
just by typing make.

The progranms have a context menu opening by clicking
with the right mouse button.

Selecting Exit on the virtual PC will also terminate
all the other programms.

